02 03 04 05 56 700 20 90 34 56 67 89
56 001 09 000001 12 23 34 45 67 78 89
34 45 56 67 78 89 12 23 34 45 76 77777 ﻿
"You will sign it, of course?"

He had hesitated before he asked the question; I hesitated before I
answered it. The protest to which he referred--how formal the phrase
now sounds, though we know that under it lay the beginning of trouble
and a new world--was one which it was proposed to move in the coming
meeting of the _noblesse_ at Cahors; its aim, to condemn the conduct
of our representatives at Versailles, in consenting to sit with the
Third Estate.

Now, for myself, whatever had been my original views on this
question--and, as a fact, I should have preferred to see reform
following the English model, the nobles' house remaining separate--I
regarded the step, now it was taken, and legalised by the King, as
irrevocable; and protest as useless. More, I could not help knowing
that those who were moving the protest desired also to refuse all
reform, to cling to all privileges, to balk all hopes of better
government; hopes, which had been rising higher, day by day, since the
elections, and which it might not now be so safe or so easy to balk.
Without swallowing convictions, therefore, which were pretty well
known, I could not see my way to supporting it. And I hesitated.

"Well?" he said at last, finding me still silent.

"I do not think that I can," I answered, flushing.

"Can support it?"

"No," I said.

He laughed genially. "Pooh!" he said. "I think that you will. I want
your promise, Vicomte. It is a small matter; a trifle, and of no
importance; but we must be unanimous. That is the one thing
necessary."

I shook my head. We had both come to a halt under the trees, a little
within the gates. His servant was leading the horses up and down the
road.

"Come," he persisted pleasantly: "you do not think that anything is
going to come of this chaotic States General, which his Majesty was
mad enough to let Neckar summon? They met on the 4th of May; this is
the 17th of July; and to this date they have done nothing but wrangle!
Nothing! Presently they will be dismissed, and there will be an end of
it!"

"Why protest, then?" I said rather feebly.

"I will tell you, my friend," he answered, smiling indulgently and
tapping his boot with his whip. "Have you heard the latest news?"

"What is it?" I replied cautiously. "Then I will tell you if I have
heard it."

"The King has dismissed Neckar!"

"No!" I cried, unable to hide my surprise.

"Yes," he answered; "the banker is dismissed. In a week his States
General or National Assembly, or whatever he pleases to call it, will
go too, and we shall be where we were before. Only, in the meantime,
and to strengthen the King in the wise course he is at last pursuing,
we must show that we are alive. We must show our sympathy with him. We
must act. We must protest."

"But, M. le Marquis," I said, a little heated, perhaps, by the news,
"are you sure that the people will quietly endure this? Never was so
bitter a winter as last winter; never a worse harvest, or such
pinching. On the top of these, their hopes have been raised, and their
minds excited by the elections, and----

"Whom have we to thank for that?" he said, with a whimsical glance at
me. "But, never fear, Vicomte; they will endure it. I know Paris; and
I can assure you that it is not the Paris of the Fronde, though M. de
Mirabeau would play the Retz. It is a peaceable, sensible Paris, and
it will not rise. Except a bread riot or two, it has seen no rising to
speak of for a century and a half: nothing that two companies of Swiss
could not deal with as easily as D'Argenson cleared the Cour des
Miracles. Believe me, there is no danger of that kind: with the least
management, all will go well!"

But his news had roused my antagonism. I found it more easy to resist
him now.

"I do not know," I said coldly; "I do not think that the matter is so
simple as you say. The King must have money, or be bankrupt; the
people have no money to pay him. I do not see how things can go back
to the old state."

M. de St. Alais looked at me with a gleam of anger in his eyes.

"You mean, Vicomte," he said, "that you do not wish them to go back?"

"I mean that the old state was impossible," I said stiffly. "It could
not last. It cannot return."

For a moment he did not answer, and we stood confronting one
another--he just without, I just within, the gateway--the cool foliage
stretching over us, the dust and July sunshine in the road beyond him;
and if my face reflected his, it was flushed, and set, and determined.
But in a twinkling his changed; he broke into an easy, polite laugh,
and shrugged his shoulders with a touch of contempt.

"Well," he said, "we will not argue; but I hope that you will sign.
Think it over, M. le Vicomte, think it over. Because"--he paused, and
looked at me gaily--"we do not know what may be depending upon it."

"That is a reason," I answered quickly, "for thinking more before
I----

"It is a reason for thinking more before you refuse," he said, bowing
very low, and this time without smiling. Then he turned to his horse,
and his servant held the stirrup while he mounted. When he was in the
saddle and had gathered up the reins, he bent his face to mine.

