"Silence, sirrah!" commanded my uncle angrily. "This is no time for
your fooling. Have a care how you talk in the same breath of pots and
my Lord Bishop!"

"_Sanctæ ecclesiæ_," Father Carey broke out, turning up his eyes in a
kind of ecstasy, as though he were knee to knee with the prelate--"_te
defensorem inclytum atque ardentem----_"

"_Pottum!_" cried I, laughing loudly at my own wit.

It was an ill-mannered word, but I was cold and peevish. I had been
forced to this function against my will. I had never seen the guest
whom we were expecting, and who was no other than the Queen's
Chancellor, Stephen Gardiner, but I disliked him as if I had. In
truth, he was related to us in a peculiar fashion, which my uncle and
I naturally looked at from different standpoints. Sir Anthony viewed
with complacence, if not with pride, any connection with the powerful
Bishop of Winchester, for the knight knew the world, and could
appreciate the value it sets on success, and the blind eyes it has for
spots if they do but speckle the risen sun. I could make no such
allowance, but, with the pride of youth and family, at once despised
the great Bishop for his base blood, and blushed that the shame lay on
our side. I hated this parade of doing honor to him, and would fain
have hidden at home with Petronilla, my cousin, Sir Anthony's
daughter, and awaited our guest there. The knight, however, had not
permitted this, and I had been forced out, being in the worst of
humors.

So I said "_Pottum!_" and laughed.

"Silence, boy!" cried Sir Anthony fiercely. He loved an orderly
procession, and to arrange things decently. "Silence!" he repeated,
darting an angry glance first at me and then at his followers, "or I
will warm that jacket of yours, lad! And you, Martin Luther, see to
your tongue for the next twenty-four hours, and keep it off my Lord
Bishop! And, Father Carey, hold yourself ready----"

"For here Sir Hot-Pot cometh!" cried the undaunted Martin, skipping
nimbly down from his post of vantage; "and a dozen of London saucepans
with him, or may I never lick the inside of one again!"

A jest on the sauciness of London serving-men was sure to tell with
the crowd, and there was a great laugh at this, especially among the
landless men, who were on the skirts of the party, and well sheltered
from Sir Anthony's eye. He glared about him, provoked to find at this
critical moment smiles where there should have been looks of
deference, and a ring round a fool where he had marshaled a
procession. Unluckily, he chose to visit his displeasure upon me. "You
won't behave, won't you, you puppy!" he cried. "You won't, won't you!"
and stepping forward he aimed a blow at my shoulders, which would have
made me rub myself if it had reached me. But I was too quick. I
stepped back, the stick swung idly, and the crowd laughed.

And there the matter would have ended, for the Bishop's party were now
close upon us, had not my foot slipped on the wet grass and I fallen
backward. Seeing me thus at his mercy, the temptation proved too much
for the knight. He forgot his love of seemliness and even that his
visitors were at his elbow--and, stooping a moment to plant home a
couple of shrewd cuts, cried, "Take that! Take that, my lad!" in a
voice that rang as crisply as his thwacks.

I was up in an instant; not that the pain was anything, and before our
own people I should have thought as little of shame, for if the old
may not lay hand to the young, being related, where is to be any
obedience? Now, however, my first glance met the grinning faces of
strange lackeys, and while my shoulders still smarted, the laughter of
a couple of soberly-clad pages stung a hundred times more sharply. I
glared furiously round, and my eyes fell on one face--a face long
remembered. It was that of a man who neither smiled nor laughed; a man
whom I recognized immediately, not by his sleek hackney or his purple
cassock, which a riding-coat partially concealed, or even by his
jeweled hand, but by the keen glance of power which passed over me,
took me in, and did not acknowledge me; which saw my humiliation
without interest or amusement. The look hurt me beyond smarting of
shoulders, for it conveyed to me in the twentieth part of a second how
very small a person Francis Cludde was, and how very great a personage
was Stephen Gardiner, whom in my thoughts I had presumed to belittle.

I stood irresolute a moment, shifting my feet and glowering at him, my
face on fire. But when he raised his hand to give the Benediction, and
the more devout, or those with mended hose, fell on their knees in the
mud, I turned my back abruptly, and, climbing the wall, flung away
across the chase.

"What, Sir Anthony!" I heard him say as I stalked off, his voice
ringing clear and incisive amid the reverential silence which followed
the Latin words; "have we a heretic here, cousin? How is this? So near
home too!"

"It is my nephew, my Lord Bishop," I could hear Sir Anthony answer,
apology in his tone; "and a willful boy at times. You know of him; he
has queer notions of his own, put into his head long ago."

I caught no more, my angry strides carrying me out of earshot. Fuming,
I hurried across the long damp grass, avoiding here and there the
fallen limb of an elm or a huge round of holly. I wanted to get out of
the way, and be out of the way; and made such haste that before the
slowly moving cavalcade had traversed one-half of the interval between
the road and the house I had reached the bridge which crossed the
moat, and, pushing my way impatiently through the maids and scullions
who had flocked to it to see the show, had passed into the courtyard.

